Let's talk about Pod State.
In this lecture I'll walk you through
the different statuses and states of a pod and a container.
I will talk about the pod status field,
which gives you high level status;
the pod condition, which is the condition of the pod;
and the container state, the state of the containers itself.
I will then show you the lifecycle
of a pod in the next lecture.
Pods have a status field, which you see
when you do kubectl get pods.
Here you see the status field.
In this scenario all pods are in the running status.
This means that the pod has been bound to a node.
All containers have been created,
and at least one container is still running,
or is starting or restarting.
Other valid statuses are pending, the pod
has been accepted but is not running.
This happens when the container image is still downloading,
so if you have a slow network connection,
this can actually take up time.
If the pod cannot be scheduled
because of resource constraints,
it'll also be in this status.
So let's say that you don't have enough CPU or memory
any more, then this pod will stay in pending status,
and you will have to investigate, for example,
using kubectl describe, to see the events
to know why exactly the pod is not scheduled.
Succeeded; all containers within this pod
have been terminated successfully and will not be restarted.
Failed; all containers within this pod
have been terminated, and at least one container
returned a failure code.
The failure code is the exit code of the process
when a container terminates.
So exit code zero means okay,
and all other exit codes are a failure.
Also you can have unknown, the state
of the pod couldn't be determined.
A network error might have been occurred;
for example, the node where the pod is running on is down.
So these are the pod statuses.
You can get the pod conditions
using kubectl describe pod and the name of the pod.
So here we do a kubectl describe of a pod,
or the API server in the name space kube system.
These pod conditions are conditions which a pod has passed,
in this example initialized, ready, and pod scheduled.
There are five different types of pod conditions.
PodScheduled, the pod has been scheduled to a node.
Ready, pod can serve requests and is going
to be added to matching services.
Initialized, the initialization containers
have been started successfully.
I will talk about these initialization containers
in the next lecture when we go over the lifecycle.
Unschedulable, the pod cannot be scheduled,
for example due to resource constraints.
And ContainersReady, all containers in the pod are ready.
There is also a container state.
You can get the container state using kubectl get pod,
on-putting using yaml, so you can see all the data
that is available for a pod, and here you have
the container statuses, you have some information
about the container, and then here in bold
you have the state, and the state
of this container is running.
So this comes from docker itself, so docker reports
that this container is running.
The container state can be running, terminated, or waiting.